well thoracic outlet syndrome is is a
unique condition where the blood vessels
or nerves are pinched in the base of the
neck up near the collarbone right behind
the collarbone
in a deep part of the neck where these
nerves or vessels pass they usually pass
between two muscles over the first rib
and athletes can get problems of nerve
compression or vessel compression there
because they use the arm in an overhead
manner frequently so it's often a
repetitive motion type of injury other
patients may develop thoracic outlet
compression as a consequence of an
injury motor vehicle collision or a fall
in the arm and then some patients have
anatomical differences like an extra rib
that they're born with and at some point
become part of the compression thoracic
outlet syndrome have intrigued me since
I came onto the faculty here and I've
developed an expertise with these
relatively uncommon conditions but that
has actually grown and from a clinical
practice perspective that's grown enough
that now that's all I take care of and
that's a busy clinical practice probably
the busiest practice in the country
regarding thoracic outlet syndrome the
other thing is that we see a lot of
patients who've had and suffered from
symptoms for many many years before they
found us or before they were referred
some as long as 10 years of disabling
arm symptoms they may have undergone
many other procedures or operations that
didn't help and it's still a thrill for
me to see those kind of patients do well
after an operation for thoracic outlet
syndrome which may not have been
suspected for many years and to see that
kind of patient and find that they have
a condition that we think we can offer
treatment for and then have successful
outcomes is still really a thrill and
one of the things that keeps us going
you